---
title: 'Chapter 1: Mexico to Idyllwild'
part: 'desert'
---

The day before I started I, like many hundreds before me, I made my way through San Diego to the house of Scout and
Frodo's, trail angels who have graciously allowed hikers to stay at their place and prepare for the journey ahead.

There, I met Ant Man, Black Widow, Giggles, and Mug, along with many more prospective hikers who I'd meet again on my
northbound hike.

On May 1st, we quietly packed our bags well before the sun rose and made our ways into the cars of volunteers who drove
us down to the Mexican border, where we began. On the first major climb out, I was overtaken by the charming and
vivacious Flamingo Kid, who quickly out hiked me.

Carrying far too much food and pushing myself during the heat, this first day was by far the hardest physically and I
made it to the shade and protection of Hauser Creek, at the bottom of the climb to Lake Morena, with shoulders that
doubted this entire endeavor. Here, I camped with Ant Man, Black Widow, her friend Willow, Giggles, Tiny Dancer, B&E,
Flamingo Kid, and Misplaced. The day before we just met as strangers, that night we began our trail family.

After a quick stop in Lake Morena for hot food, despite still having too much in my pack, I met Dobby, and the rest of
the group met Adventure Time who advised us to meet up with him later in the day at Kitchen Creek. There, we were able
to cool off after a long day of hiking in the creek, setup camp next to the waters, and sleep to the sound of croaking
frogs.

We left the desert floor to enter the beautiful pine forests of Mount Laguna, where Black Widow, Giggles, and I shared a
tiny home, cramming our sleeping pads next to each other, awaking with each crinkle as we tossed and turned.

The next day, we stepped north of town and looked over the Anza-Borrego desert, where we were about to enter.

Seventeen miles later, we filled up on water at a questionable cistern and ate a quick dinner. As I left, a truck that
was zooming by screeched to a halt, where a man poked his head out. Noticing my hiking attire, he asked me if I wanted
an extremely cold beer. I declined, but he then tried offering an orange, which I happily agreed to as he got out and
opened a cooler full of ice.

We had one more day to Scissor's Crossing, where we were to attempt our first hitchhike into the town of Julian, but the
group got a bit mixed up as several members took the wrong route in the dark of the early morning. We were reunited
under the bridge at Scissor's Crossing, where hikers sprawled around a water cache maintained by the locals, and slept
off the heat of the day.

Eventually, we all got rides into Julian, including some of us from a legendary local trail angel named Ghost, where we
immediately stopped by Mom's, who provided all hikers with a permit a free slice of pie, where I grabbed a table with
Adventure Time, White Stripe, Little Hamster, and Butters. Little Hamster, who I met under the bridge, and I convinced
each other that we both had deserved a nice place in town to stay and we grabbed separate rooms at a local AirBnB, while
the rest of my gang stayed at the lodge. We all met up later for Cinco de Mayo margaritas and dinner.

A local gear outfitter, Two Foot Adventure, arranged rides for us back to Scissor's Crossing, and unlike the rest of my
group I waited until the sun started to set to hike. I passed my group setting up camp a few miles later, but as the
climb to third gate water cache was notably brutal in the sun, I hiked well into the dark, passing Dobby's campsite in
the dark, and called my friend from work, Elleen, to ease my nerves as the wind picked up. Eventually, I camped just
before the water cache, which was immaculately maintained by local volunteers, including Ghost.

The next day, we passed the mile 100 marker and celebrated with a trip to Montezuma Market a mile later, where we
snacked and drank outside the shop to our heart's content, meeting AKA.

Past the cow fields, we set up camp at a dried out creek bed and agreed to do a quick out and back to Eagle Rock, where
we watched the sun set and the stars come out.

At this point, I'd be remiss to not mention that my stomach was treating me poorly and I was unable to eat more than a
thousand calories each day and the next few days were painful, as cramps wracked me with every step.

Over the next two days met Dylan, a wildland firefighter carrying a full-size chainsaw to raise awareness for mental
health among firefighters, gratefully got water from caches at Mike's and Mary's, received trail magic from Lifeguard
and Zelda, and saw more rattlesnakes each day than I had seen on trails up until now.

After crawling into Paradise Valley Cafe, I ate the largest salad I could stomach, and we received a very kind hitch
into the town of Idyllwild, where we were reunited with Flamingo Kid. Ant Man, AKA, Black Widow, Willow, Giggles, Little
Hamster, and I rented a beautiful cabin in town and planned for our first full rest day.