---
title: 'Chapter 4: Tehachapi to Kennedy Meadows'
part: 'desert'
---

Tehachapi was another zero and I spent most of the day recovering my feet and popping blisters. Cool Rocks brought over
Carnation Instant Breakfast for Ant Man, and we hung out before saying our goodbyes, as she planned to stay in Tehachapi
one more day.

For our final push through the desert, we got a hitch back to the PCT and were thrust into extreme winds and heat
advisories. Here, Dylan decided to depart the group, and the rest of us stuck together tighter than ever, due to much
longer water carries.

The heat was relentless, but briefly broken up by a few key springs and water caches maintained by a trail angel named
Devilfish. The blisters were coming back, but this time I was prepared with additional leukotape and careful attention
to my feet. At one water cache, while replacing the bandages on my feet, I turned on my phone to get warnings from Cool
Rocks that several of the springs and water caches we had been resupplying from were suspected of causing some sort of
illness, either a norovirus or algae outbreak.

Looking sadly at the now suspect water I had been consuming for the past few days, we pressed on, taking care to
sanitize our hands more frequently. This, of course, wasn't effective for either norovirus or algae, but it was all we
could think to do.

As our morale dropped a few miles before Walker Pass, the only major road crossing in this section, I decided to hike
ahead of the group and get a hitch into Inyokern. The campground at Walker Pass was bleak, so I went to the gas
station/grocery store in town and filled a shopping cart with fresh water, beverages, and ice cream as a morale boost
for not just my trail family, but some of the other hikers I had been around.

Once loaded, however, I had difficulty getting a hitch back, until Floss came up to me and asked what I was doing. I
explained and he called someone who lived in Ridgecrest to come pick us up. We found out she had been caring for many of
the hikers who had gotten sick, despite not having any direct connections to the trail itself.

Back at Walker Pass, I shared my goods with the group, as well as Foxy and Trippy, and several other hikers I hadn't met
yet. Car campers also joined us, and none of us were able to get solid rest with the level of noise they brought with
them.

The climb out of Walker Pass was one of the most brutal of the desert, with many water sources being marked as poor,
either contaminated with uranium, mosquito larvae, or flies. We picked the one surrounded by flies and I only made it as
I drank my final sip of water.

At the top of the next climb, I found myself incredibly nauseous, possibly heat exhausted, and for the first time in a
while I wasn't able to eat. The next day brought us to several fantastic water sources. Those, along with brief glimpses
of the Sierra Nevadas, let us know that we were close to completing the desert.

Our final night in the desert we camped about 10 miles away from Kennedy Meadows, and despite the heat, biting ants, and
brutal landscape, we all soaked in the final hours of our time in the desert section of the PCT.

As the trail briefly turned into roads leading to Kennedy Meadows, I distinctly remembered tearing up, incredibly proud
of myself and knowing that if I could make it hear, that I could finish the entire thing.

These emotions were amplified by a surprise reunion with the Filipino family we met after San Jacinto, who met us with
cooked food and treats, which we gratefully accepted.

Kennedy Meadows, not much more than two competing general store/restaurants, surrounded by ranches, was an odd outpost.
As it was the final resupply opportunity before entering the Sierras, however, it served as a chokepoint and we were
reunited with many of the hikers we hadn't seen in many days. While there was very little to do, we decided to spend an
extra day here to swap out gear in preparation for the rapid change in environment.

Cool Rocks joined us the day after, and we all hung out briefly before our group once again decided to head out, this
time with the addition of Lefty who quickly fell into a trail romance with Willow at Kennedy Meadows. We carried out
much heavier packs, with long food carries, bear canister requirements, and warmer clothing, and with one last look, we
left the desert section behind us.