---
title: 'Chapter 5: Kennedy Meadows to Bishop'
part: 'sierras'
---

<script lang="ts">
import Images from '$lib/components/Images.svelte';
</script>

The first few miles out of Kennedy Meadows felt suspiciously like the desert still. Once we entered Inyo National
Forest, however, the landscape changed drastically, with beautiful meadows and creeks pressed up against the Sierras.

Despite the added elevation gain and rugged terrain, entering the Sierra Nevada was a rejuvenating experience. Early on,
we met Gibb, who taught us about the flint all around us, as well as Shapes, who shared some incredible banana bread his
mother had sent him.

![The transition between the desert and the Sierras](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/edc9c735-f562-4209-c3e6-4367710aae00.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/debeaef6-c8d9-4980-33fc-72b386ff3300.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/01ec1b05-1780-401e-e730-c4282f6f9700.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/589ba55c-d1f5-4fe2-337b-7c5e7c24f800.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/f876dabe-689d-4092-f81a-de4cfc9a5d00.jpeg)

![Starting to climb on up](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/5df33b79-1afd-472b-65bb-e40315c44300.jpeg)

A strong 45 miles into the Sierra Nevada, we pushed up to 12k feet of elevation, where the group finally felt the
elevation a bit. The temperature cooled dramatically, partially because of an incoming cold front.

Here, however, we came across our first alpine lake: Chicken Springs Lake. The lake was freezing cold, but I still
soaked my feet to help them reduce in size, as my foot size had grown a full size since starting. Ant Man and Giggles
dove straight in.

The lake was beautiful, but unfortunately a bit trashed due to being a popular spot. Upon finding fecal remains hidden
among the rocks, I quickly discarded my first campsite choice.

![Ant Man, Black Widow, and Giggles at Chicken Springs Lake](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/2b07ca64-10d7-4db7-f17b-d0355f9f9b00.jpeg)

![The cold settling in in the Sierras](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/d0203d17-3c83-4ea4-0723-cfdbf3279400.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/6cb33224-a5e4-4a09-9f78-71280bdda700.jpeg)

![Freezing behind Lefty and Willow](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/8e0cd70f-db85-4e85-94cf-8f0297e61000.jpeg)

The next morning was cloudy and frigid. This was the first day on trail without clear blue skies and we were glad for
our warmer clothing. I unfortunately realized that I had eaten through my food much more quickly than I had expected,
and while the exit to Bishop was only a few days away, we also wanted to add the optional trek to Mt Whitney - the
highest point in the continental US.

At the junction to Crabtree Meadow, we took the turn towards Mt Whitney and set up camp at the base. We originally
planned to do the climb shortly after midnight to reach the peak at sunrise, but as the temperature plummeted quickly to
20 degrees and multiple climbers of Mt Whitney the day before our ascent required medical assistance due to hypothermia,
we thought better of our original plan.

Instead, we woke to a frozen meadow and gingerly packed every extra layer of clothing and insulation we could as we
began the steep climb up to the peak of Mt Whitney. Running out of food, I ate a single poptart and saved the rest of my
food for the following days and used what little energy I could muster to trudge up Mt Whitney, desperate for the sun to
come out.

On the way up, I met quite a few John Muir Trail hikers, as Mt Whitney is the southern terminus of that trail, and I did
my best to keep a smile on my face as I congratulated them for being so close to the end. Past Guitar Lake, we climbed
up an endless series of steep switchbacks and cut across a ledge covered in ice.

At the top, we reached 14,505 feet and the sun finally warmed us up. I found Foxy and Trippy cuddled up under a sleeping
bag, crying to their favorite soundtrack. All of us rested for a moment, exhausted, but before too long, we needed to
get back down as the weather worsened.

![A cold fog rolling in](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/b31e3524-85a4-432c-c588-24748b009f00.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/02099ec2-f4a4-44db-84d0-93f21fd59800.jpeg)

![Base camp at Crabtree Meadow](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/566b080c-aca1-4f48-5f4d-ee6102923400.jpeg)

![Starting the climb up Mt Whitney](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/0d7f53b1-b4d0-4dae-88ff-82b9f3238500.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/a00a105e-bc41-4bb0-c552-98713bd23500.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/efd4561a-cd76-48a1-3398-f4f0b914ea00.jpeg)

![Never ending switchbacks](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/3fcbd2a3-6073-41dc-4102-0d36ee429400.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/3781eb2c-61d6-484f-f8e1-34ef30553500.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/a6d7c4dc-16e4-4129-d574-2ccfdb5a2a00.jpeg)

![Made it to the top](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/d7da3dc6-5b96-481f-a10f-cd7de7a37600.jpeg)

Once I returned to Crabtree Meadow, I briefly reunited with Cool Rocks before I weakly attempted to continue to the PCT.
I hiked a few miles on my own before setting up camp.

The next day grew even colder, cold enough to kill Ant Man's phone, and we trudged on towards Forester Pass, the highest
point directly on the PCT. The stunning views from the top rewarded us for the day, while I tried not to think about how
I only had one more meal in my pack, with no other food.

![Gorgeous views in every direction](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/3b814eb1-1cca-4018-9c60-3cf023f06a00.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/981829ef-2dae-4df5-e289-9e1ff0082300.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/2b8b6c1f-1fa4-4319-ad27-f1023524ad00.jpeg)

![My first marmot](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/76e49250-ed50-4034-426d-660a2a814100.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/a4d2d6ca-d453-4a57-bda6-60ab85b27e00.jpeg)

![Climbing up Forester Pass, that little gap in the wall up there](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/c2b10a42-1023-48e5-ddc7-ff10e4cf6900.jpeg)

![Forester Pass - the high point of the PCT](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/11a46f44-277d-4be7-8752-363dd99bca00.jpeg)

![Jeeves, Willow, Giggles, Black Widow, Ant Man, and some guy](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/086c69f2-80d3-4ca8-89da-ca399fb45600.jpeg)

After a quick descent to King's Canyon, we needed to climb up towards Kearsarge Pass, stopping at one of the last
campsites on our way out. That evening, I made the most of my last meal and miraculously found a few extra snacks, which
I then shared with the rest of the group.

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/19e83b9a-fe9a-4a0f-d6b6-d56aca8a8000.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/b4c7adde-20c6-4b2f-fdf9-3c37ba344f00.jpeg)

![Incredible views](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/67d77c05-6d7d-4e30-744f-f328d6c97600.jpeg)

![](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/11990821-ccd7-4440-91ea-476c782e4d00.jpeg)

![Just before the cutoff to Kearsarge Pass](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/02da0690-2f4d-4bc9-38ec-e80aa228d900.jpeg)

The next morning we reached Onion Valley trailhead and were able to get a ride down to Independence, where I ran into
Flamingo Kid once again, but struggled to get a ride down the highway to Bishop. Once we did, I immediately ran over to
the local car rental and borrowed a car. I then found hikers in Bishop, who needed a ride back to Onion Valley. One such
hiker was Misplaced, who I hadn't seen since the early days of the PCT. I also ran into Sweet Cakes, who I last saw in
Julian.

For the next few days, we rested in Bishop while I drove multiple groups of hikers between Onion Valley and Bishop. The
crowning achievement was when I was able to surprise Cool Rocks at the trailhead and take her into town.

This gave us time to talk, and we agreed to hike the next section together. My trail family wanted to leave Bishop
almost right away, but I needed some time to recuperate. I also wanted to take the next part of the Sierras slowly,
which aligned more closely with Cool Rocks' goals. Finally, Cool Rocks had been hiking alone for most of the early
Sierras and with her birthday coming up, I wanted to be there to celebrate with her.

I gave Gibb a haircut, dropped off my trail family off at the trailhead the day before I intended to leave, and hung out
with Cool Rocks as we watched a storm roll in over the Sierras.

![Bishop is just on the other side](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/df5c6278-81ef-41ae-ed4d-795294c1f400.jpeg)

![Reunited with Flamingo Kid in Independence](https://cdn.jeeveshikedthepct.com/images/1d3d39f1-a94b-478b-aa16-3ddb387b8900.jpeg)
