---
title: 'Chapter 12 - Stehekin to Rock Pass'
part: 'cascades'
---

Stehekin is inaccessible by roads and rests on the western shore of Lake Chelan. Typically, visitors take a ferry or
seaplan from the eastern side, but hikers can walk in from the trail, which is on the west side of Stehekin. As the walk
into town is fairly long, Stehekin provides a free shuttle from the trailhead which I made just in time. It briefly
stopped by Stehekin Valley Ranch, as well as the legendary Stehekin Bakery. Both were exceedingly welcome stops as I had
run out of food the ight before.

I intended to resupply in Stehekin, but once we reached Stehekin proper, the town was crowded. It had gotten to the
point that rangers were asking any hikers who were able to leave to do so. I knew that in about a day, I'd reach Rainy
Pass where I could maybe get a hitch to the tiny town of Mazama, so I packed out some extra bakery goods and returned to
the trailhead.

The rest of the trail between Stehekin and Rainy Pass was in North Cascades National Park, which only allowed PCT hikers
to camp in two specific campsites, so I picked the one I thought I could make it to with the amount of day I had left.
Upon reaching there, the campsite was also packed with hikers, so I found a small spot on the edge and planned to wake
up early.

Compared to the previous sections of trail, the final 15 miles to Rainy Pass were a breeze, and before too long I ran
into Honeybee, sans-McMansion, and we hitched into Mazama. I stopped by the bakery and enjoyed it much more than the one
in Stehekin. It was already late afternoon, so I chose to stay in Mazama for the evening and headed over to Lion's Den.
Lion's Den was a home owned by a former PCT hiker who allowed hikers to stay during the PCT hiking season. With the
fires causing havoc, this generosity was extra appreciated, for everyone to have a place to reorganize their hiking
plans.

Knocking on the door, an older man opened and invited me in. I blinked and realized that it was Ghost, a trail angel I
met my very first week of the PCT. He and his wife were supporting another hiker and planning to drive her back down to
San Diego when she finished.

I showered, did my laundry, and walked back into town where I hung out with Rich and Ben. They had been just ahead of me
for the past few weeks and they had just returned to Mazama after reaching the Canadian border. As I head back to Lion's
Den, I heard someone softly call out my name and I was reunited with Bandit. We hung out for a little bit on the side of
the road, until night fell and I went to bed.

As the fires north were intensifying and threatening to close the PCT, I left early the next day, intending to get to
the border the day after. After Rainy Pass, the trail was beautiful, but the wildfire smoke was starting to settle in
the valley and the nerves ran up and down the trail.

I made it to Grasshopper Pass at sunset, and setup for the night. I was only 37 miles away from the border and vowed to
finish up the remainder of Washington the next day.

Harts Pass, a difficult to reach pass by vehicle even in the best of times, had rangers organizing cars as a recent
landslide had made access challenging. The rangers were also nervous, but optimistic about the fire situation, so I
trekked northwards. As entry into Canada from the United States was closed this year, hikers returning from tagging the
border cheered me in. The first of which was Mug, who I last saw on my very first day. He had been ahead of me almost
the entire trail and wished me the best of luck, warning that the smoke would get worse.

Walking into the Pasaytan Wilderness, I looked at the border, where the smoke clouds made an eerie scene. I
congratulated a few more hikers I knew on their way back to the border, including White Stripe who decided not to stay
in Mazama.

Around 15 miles from the Canadian border, I was making great time when I saw a hiker I had been around for most of
Washington. I was about to congratulate him on reaching the monument, when I noticed his sullen demeanor and he informed
me that the trail north was now closed. I hiked on a little bit more, as he told me to ask rangers that were up ahead,
where I found them comforting a woman who was sobbing. They let me know that fire was visible from the trail just up
ahead. Apologizing, they let me know that I'd need to turn around, since I was technically inside of a fire closure.

I was sad to have to turn around, but the mood as I made my way back to safety was extremely somber. I did my best to be
there for others, but as I wasn't quite as heartbroken as many of the people around me, especially as this wasn't the
end of my time on the PCT, I felt less than effective and instead chose to camp on my own that evening. The next day, I
ran into Shapes, who had been just behind me. He planned on at least making it to the edge of the fire closure, but let
me know to wait for him at Harts Pass.

At Harts Pass, locals from Wenatchee had setup a cooking setup, providing pancakes and hot chocolate. Because Harts Pass
was the closest road to the border, many hikers who were behind me stopped here. With that said, the difficult access to
the road meant that getting hitches took a significant amount of time. Several hikers flagged down every offroad vehicle
they could find that was willing to drive hikers down from Harts Pass, while I kept a list of hikers and the order they
signed up for a hitch.

Here, I was reunited with Magma, and we caught up as the number of hikers stranded on Harts Pass started to diminish.
After returning from PCT Days, Magma had found a new group she was tight with, and they planned to return to Cascade
Locks and hike south. I also briefly saw Misplaced and Stellar Jay, before they found their ride down.

When Shapes returned from the border, he let me know that his mother was on her way, and before too long I had my own
ride not just to Mazama, but all the way back to Seattle. I left my list with some other hikers and walked them through
the process, and we took the next few people on the list down with us. We did a pit stop in Mazama, relishing the bakery
goods one more time, and began the long drive back to Seattle.
